# Ask Learn & Teach

Introduction 
Question answering is a form of information retrieval that deals with natural language questions. A user can query a question answering system, which then searches a knowledge source and returns one or more results. The main goal is to retrieve explicit answers to questions rather than whole documents. This task has already been addressed by various systems following both linguistic and statistical approaches and has been intensively investigated in the Text Retrieval Conference (TREC). Ask learn and teach (ALT) is an intelligent teacher avatar that answers your questions, just by asking. This project is useful for students and allows them to learn quick answers by asking questions from their android phones, which could save their time to research and learn otherwise. The system returns short text passages, which are single sentences or sentence fragments that are assumed to contain the answer. The difficulty portion for this project is to use NLP algorithm effectively in responding to accurate answers. System has been provided with attractive features for the users for easy handling and interactivity. 


Input
User asks chemistry relevant question in either audio input speech or text format. This input is send to the server for processing.


Procedure
User query is received by the system. The query is parsed by POS tagger which generates part of speech separating verbs, clause and nouns, adjectives, adverbs, etc. Next we apply OSCAR tagger to find out if the question is related to chemistry domain or not and then use it to extract relevant chemistry subject terms from it. After that we reformulate our query and generate multiple queries by adding top scored synonyms to it from Word-net dictionary. These formed queries are then sent to knowledge miners i.e. Google and Wikipedia. We select top 10 (controllable) web pages from Google and download these pages. Next we parse these pages and remove html tags to generate sentences. Then we check theses sentences with the key terms based on the keywords generated by OSCAR and the relevant keyword from POS tagger. 
The resulting answer snippets are passed through various filters such as stop-words filter, duplication filters, direct-speech filter, sentence extraction and sentence relationship filters, etc. After this we rank the answer by applying Cosine similarity and Jaccard similarity to get the similarity score of every document and finally select top three answers from documents with the links they were fetched from. 


Output 
System will display three best possible answers and the links where they are extracted from. Back end process is on server side. Front end display is on an android mobile. 


Summary
In this research paper we learn different techniques of NLP. Compared different techniques and analyze output with respect to accuracy, performance and time. 
After analyzing we learned that a question cannot be accurately classified unless it has a lot of features/parameters to work with. Hence this leads to the development of a complex question answering system.
We have used POS tagging, Word-net, regular expression, different filters and similarity matching algorithms. 
Our results are satisfactory. On core i5, 2.6 GHZ and 9.3 Mbps internet speed result given by system within 7-8 second (Average). This system is highly dependent on internet speed and processing power. 
